>> OF COURSE IT DID, BUT I DON’T HAVE A TIME MACHINE TO GO BACK
HAVE A TIME MACHINE TO GO BACK AND CHANGE THE ’90s.
AND CHANGE THE ’90s. I CAN ONLY CHANGE GOING FORWARD.
I CAN ONLY CHANGE GOING FORWARD. >> WILLIE GEIST, YOU CAN TAKE
>> WILLIE GEIST, YOU CAN TAKE OVER.
OVER. >> I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT YOUR
>> I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT YOUR MEDIUM POST LAST WEEK WHERE YOU
MEDIUM POST LAST WEEK WHERE YOU TALKED ABOUT THE BREAK UP OF BIG
TALKED ABOUT THE BREAK UP OF BIG TECH.
TECH. IT’S TIME TO BREAK UP AMAZON,
IT’S TIME TO BREAK UP AMAZON, GOOGLE AND FACEBOOK.
GOOGLE AND FACEBOOK. IT WAS MORE NUANCE THAN THE
IT WAS MORE NUANCE THAN THE HEADLINE.
HEADLINE. CAN YOU EXPLAIN WHAT YOU MEANT
CAN YOU EXPLAIN WHAT YOU MEANT THERE?
THERE? >> SURE.
>> SURE. LET’S USE AMAZON.
LET’S USE AMAZON. THEY RUN TWO KINDS OF
THEY RUN TWO KINDS OF BUSINESSES.
BUSINESSES. ONE, IT RUNS A PLATFORM.
ONE, IT RUNS A PLATFORM. THAT’S THE PLACE WHERE ALL THE
THAT’S THE PLACE WHERE ALL THE SMALL BUSINESSES COME AND THEY
SMALL BUSINESSES COME AND THEY TRADE AND THEY BUY AND SELL.
TRADE AND THEY BUY AND SELL. AMAZON RUNS THAT PLATFORM, BUT
AMAZON RUNS THAT PLATFORM, BUT ALSO SUCKS OUT TONS OF
ALSO SUCKS OUT TONS OF INFORMATION FROM EVERY SINGLE
INFORMATION FROM EVERY SINGLE TRANSACTION.
TRANSACTION. IT THEN USES THAT INFORMATION
IT THEN USES THAT INFORMATION THAT NOBODY ELSE IS PRIVY TO TO
THAT NOBODY ELSE IS PRIVY TO TO LOOK OUT AND SAY, OH, THERE’S A
LOOK OUT AND SAY, OH, THERE’S A PROFITABLE BUSINESS.
PROFITABLE BUSINESS. WE THINK WE’LL GO INTO
WE THINK WE’LL GO INTO COMPETITION WITH THEM.
COMPETITION WITH THEM. SO, IT THEN PUTS OUT A PRODUCT
SO, IT THEN PUTS OUT A PRODUCT IN COMPETITION WITH THE PILLOW
IN COMPETITION WITH THE PILLOW SALES GUY AND MOVES THE
SALES GUY AND MOVES THE PROFITABLE BUSINESS BACK TO PAGE
PROFITABLE BUSINESS BACK TO PAGE 6 AND PUTS AMAZON RIGHT AT THE
6 AND PUTS AMAZON RIGHT AT THE FRONT, AMAZON’S OWN BUSINESS.
FRONT, AMAZON’S OWN BUSINESS. SO, THE WAY I SEE THIS, IT’S A
SO, THE WAY I SEE THIS, IT’S A LITTLE LIKE BASEBALL.
LITTLE LIKE BASEBALL. WE’LL USE A BASEBALL ANALOGY
WE’LL USE A BASEBALL ANALOGY HERE.
HERE. YOU CAN BE THE UMPIRE, THAT’S
YOU CAN BE THE UMPIRE, THAT’S THE PLATFORM, OR YOU CAN HAVE A
THE PLATFORM, OR YOU CAN HAVE A TEAM IN THE GAME, THAT’S RUNNING
TEAM IN THE GAME, THAT’S RUNNING THESE INDIVIDUAL BUSINESSES THAT
THESE INDIVIDUAL BUSINESSES THAT MEET ON THE PLATFORM.
MEET ON THE PLATFORM. BUT, YOU DON’T GET TO DO BOTH
BUT, YOU DON’T GET TO DO BOTH SIMULTANEOUSLY.
SIMULTANEOUSLY. I THINK THEY OUGHT TO BE BROKEN
I THINK THEY OUGHT TO BE BROKEN APART.
APART. >> ANOTHER WAY TO EXPLAIN IS
>> ANOTHER WAY TO EXPLAIN IS TAKE APPLE.
TAKE APPLE. OBVIOUSLY, A VERY POPULAR
OBVIOUSLY, A VERY POPULAR COMPANY.
COMPANY. IT HAS AN APP STORE.
IT HAS AN APP STORE. DO YOU BELIEVE APPLE SHOULD BE
DO YOU BELIEVE APPLE SHOULD BE ABLE TO SELL ITS OWN APPS ON THE
ABLE TO SELL ITS OWN APPS ON THE APP STORE?
APP STORE? >> IT NEEDS TO DO ONE OR THE
>> IT NEEDS TO DO ONE OR THE OTHER.
OTHER. EITHER IT RUNS THE PLATFORM, THE
EITHER IT RUNS THE PLATFORM, THE APP STORE, OR SELLING ITS OWN
APP STORE, OR SELLING ITS OWN PRODUCTS ON THE APP STORE, BUT
PRODUCTS ON THE APP STORE, BUT DOESN’T DO BOTH SIMULTANEOUSLY
DOESN’T DO BOTH SIMULTANEOUSLY BECAUSE WHEN EVER IT DOES, IT
BECAUSE WHEN EVER IT DOES, IT HAS THIS ENORMOUS COMPETITIVE
HAS THIS ENORMOUS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE THAT WIPES OUT ALL THE
ADVANTAGE THAT WIPES OUT ALL THE OTHER LITTLE BUSINESSES.
OTHER LITTLE BUSINESSES. IN FACT, DID YOU KNOW, WILLIE,
IN FACT, DID YOU KNOW, WILLIE, OUT
OUT IT’S NOW REFERRED TO, THIS ZONE
IT’S NOW REFERRED TO, THIS ZONE AROUND FOLKS LIKE APPLE AND
AROUND FOLKS LIKE APPLE AND GOOGLE AND AMAZON, ANYONE THAT
GOOGLE AND AMAZON, ANYONE THAT MOVES INTO THE COMPETITION
MOVES INTO THE COMPETITION SPACE, IT’S CALLED THE KILL
SPACE, IT’S CALLED THE KILL ZONE.
ZONE. VENTURE CAPITALISTS ARE
VENTURE CAPITALISTS ARE INVESTING ABOUT 20% LESS THAN
INVESTING ABOUT 20% LESS THAN THEY USED TO ON THESE START-UP
THEY USED TO ON THESE START-UP COMPANIES BECAUSE THEY KNOW IF
COMPANIES BECAUSE THEY KNOW IF THEY GO INTO THE KILL ZONE, ONE
THEY GO INTO THE KILL ZONE, ONE OF TWO THINGS WILL HAPPEN.
OF TWO THINGS WILL HAPPEN. THEY WILL EITHER GET GOBBLED UP
THEY WILL EITHER GET GOBBLED UP BY THE GIANT OR WIPED OUT BY THE
BY THE GIANT OR WIPED OUT BY THE GIANT BUT THEY WON’T HAVE A
GIANT BUT THEY WON’T HAVE A CHANCE TO GROW AND DEVELOP INTO
CHANCE TO GROW AND DEVELOP INTO WHAT THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
WHAT THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN. >> DO YOU BELIEVE GOOGLE, AMAZON
>> DO YOU BELIEVE GOOGLE, AMAZON AND FACEBOOK ARE ALL MONOPOLIES
AND FACEBOOK ARE ALL MONOPOLIES BY YOUR DEFINITION?
BY YOUR DEFINITION? >> THEY ARE HUGE.
>> THEY ARE HUGE. THEY HAVE MARKET DOMINANCE AND
THEY HAVE MARKET DOMINANCE AND BEHAVE LIKE MONOPOLISTS.
BEHAVE LIKE MONOPOLISTS. THAT’S A BIG PART OF THE REASON
THAT’S A BIG PART OF THE REASON THEY NEED TO BE BROKEN APART.
THEY NEED TO BE BROKEN APART. LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED WITH
LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED WITH FACEBOOK.
FACEBOOK. I DON’T KNOW ABOUT YOU, BUT A
I DON’T KNOW ABOUT YOU, BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE UNEASY ABOUT
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE UNEASY ABOUT HOW FACEBOOK HANDLES THEIR DATA.
HOW FACEBOOK HANDLES THEIR DATA. SO, ALONG COMES WHAT’S APP?
SO, ALONG COMES WHAT’S APP? RIGHT?
RIGHT? WHAT’S APP SAYS, I TELL YOU WHAT
WHAT’S APP SAYS, I TELL YOU WHAT WE’LL DO, WE’LL GIVE A LOT
WE’LL DO, WE’LL GIVE A LOT BETTER PROTECTION FOR YOUR
BETTER PROTECTION FOR YOUR PRIVACY.
PRIVACY. A BUNCH OF PEOPLE MOVE FROM
A BUNCH OF PEOPLE MOVE FROM FACEBOOK TO WHAT’S APP.
FACEBOOK TO WHAT’S APP. NOW, THAT PUTS FACEBOOK IN THE
NOW, THAT PUTS FACEBOOK IN THE POSITION OF DOING ONE OF TWO
POSITION OF DOING ONE OF TWO THINGS.
THINGS. EITHER THEY HAVE TO GET BETTER
EITHER THEY HAVE TO GET BETTER TO MEET THE COMPETITION, THAT’S
TO MEET THE COMPETITION, THAT’S WHAT A GOOD, ROBUST MARKET IS
WHAT A GOOD, ROBUST MARKET IS ABOUT, OR, IF YOU ARE ALREADY
ABOUT, OR, IF YOU ARE ALREADY HUGE AND DOMINATE THE FIELD,
HUGE AND DOMINATE THE FIELD, JUST BUY THE COMPETITION AND
JUST BUY THE COMPETITION AND TAKE THEIR DATA.
TAKE THEIR DATA. FACEBOOK CHOSE TO DO THE LATTER.
FACEBOOK CHOSE TO DO THE LATTER. THEY SHOULDN’T BE ALLOWED TO DO
THEY SHOULDN’T BE ALLOWED TO DO THAT.
THAT. THAT IS NOT FURTHERING
THAT IS NOT FURTHERING COMPETITION.
COMPETITION. YOU KNOW, WILLIE, I BELIEVE IN
YOU KNOW, WILLIE, I BELIEVE IN MARKETS.
MARKETS. IT’S WHEN MARKETS HAVE RULES,
IT’S WHEN MARKETS HAVE RULES, WHEN MARKETS HAVE COPS ON THE
WHEN MARKETS HAVE COPS ON THE BEAT TO MAKE SURE THE GIANTS
BEAT TO MAKE SURE THE GIANTS AREN’T GOBBLING UP EVERYONE ELSE
AREN’T GOBBLING UP EVERYONE ELSE AND ELIMINATING COMPETITION.
AND ELIMINATING COMPETITION. THAT’S WHEN MARKETS WORK.
THAT’S WHEN MARKETS WORK. >> WOULD YOU WORK TO STOP 2012’S
>> WOULD YOU WORK TO STOP 2012’S FACEBOOK PURCHASE OF INSTAGRAM?
FACEBOOK PURCHASE OF INSTAGRAM? >> YEP.
>> YEP. HERE IS THE THING.
HERE IS THE THING. IT’S POSSIBLE TO GO BACK AND DO
IT’S POSSIBLE TO GO BACK AND DO IT.
IT. LOOK, WE LET THIS MERGER GO
LOOK, WE LET THIS MERGER GO THROUGH.
THROUGH. OFTEN THE MERGERS ARE ON
OFTEN THE MERGERS ARE ON CONDITIONS, CONDITIONAL THAT
CONDITIONS, CONDITIONAL THAT THEY ARE NOT GOING TO DO THIS OR
THEY ARE NOT GOING TO DO THIS OR NOT GOING TO DO THAT.
NOT GOING TO DO THAT. LET THE MERGER GO THROUGH.
LET THE MERGER GO THROUGH. LOOK AT IT AND SAY, TURNS OUT
LOOK AT IT AND SAY, TURNS OUT THERE ARE ANTI-COMPETITIVE
THERE ARE ANTI-COMPETITIVE EFFECTS.
EFFECTS. IF IT DOES, WE CAN GO BACK AND
IF IT DOES, WE CAN GO BACK AND UNWIND AND BREAK THE PIECES
UNWIND AND BREAK THE PIECES APART.
APART. UNDERSTAND, FOR ANYBODY WHO
UNDERSTAND, FOR ANYBODY WHO STILL WANTS TO GO ON FACEBOOK
STILL WANTS TO GO ON FACEBOOK AND CHECK OUT OLD COLLEGE
AND CHECK OUT OLD COLLEGE ROOMMATES OR ANYONE WHO WANTS TO
ROOMMATES OR ANYONE WHO WANTS TO GO TO AMAZON AND PRICE OUT 46
GO TO AMAZON AND PRICE OUT 46 COFFEE MAKERS AND GET THE ONE
COFFEE MAKERS AND GET THE ONE THAT CAN BE DELIVERED IN 24
THAT CAN BE DELIVERED IN 24 HOURS OR ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO GO
HOURS OR ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO GO ON GOOGLE AND CHECK OUT THE
ON GOOGLE AND CHECK OUT THE CAPITAL OF NORTH DAKOTA, THAT
CAPITAL OF NORTH DAKOTA, THAT WILL ALSO STILL BE POSSIBLE.
WILL ALSO STILL BE POSSIBLE. THE PLATFORMS WILL STILL BE
THE PLATFORMS WILL STILL BE THERE.
THERE. WHAT WILL BE DIFFERENT IS THAT
WHAT WILL BE DIFFERENT IS THAT THE COMPANIES THAT ARE SELLING
THE COMPANIES THAT ARE SELLING ON THOSE PLATFORMS WILL BE IN A
ON THOSE PLATFORMS WILL BE IN A REAL MARKETPLACE WHERE THEY
REAL MARKETPLACE WHERE THEY COMPETE STRAIGHT UP, BASED ON
COMPETE STRAIGHT UP, BASED ON PRICE AND SERVICE AND QUALITY OF
PRICE AND SERVICE AND QUALITY OF GOODS, NOT HAVING THE PLATFORM
GOODS, NOT HAVING THE PLATFORM OWNER ABLE TO COME IN AND HAVE
OWNER ABLE TO COME IN AND HAVE THIS ENORMOUS ADVANTAGE TO BE
THIS ENORMOUS ADVANTAGE TO BE ABLE TO SCOOP UP ALL THE
ABLE TO SCOOP UP ALL THE BUSINESS AND KILL OFF THE LITTLE
BUSINESS AND KILL OFF THE LITTLE BUSINESSES THE ENTREPRENEURS AND
BUSINESSES THE ENTREPRENEURS AND THE START UPS.
THE START UPS. >> YOU KNOW, AS YOU KNOW WELL,
>> YOU KNOW, AS YOU KNOW WELL, SENATOR, THERE’S BEEN A TENSION
SENATOR, THERE’S BEEN A TENSION DURING THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
DURING THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN THAT’S COME FROM MEMBERS OF YOUR
THAT’S COME FROM MEMBERS OF YOUR PARTY NOT RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT
PARTY NOT RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT WITH CAPITALISM VERSUS
WITH CAPITALISM VERSUS SOCIALISM.
SOCIALISM. YOU HAVE SAID I’M A CAPITALIST
YOU HAVE SAID I’M A CAPITALIST TO THE BONE.
TO THE BONE. YOU WERE ASKED SUNDAY BY JOHN
YOU WERE ASKED SUNDAY BY JOHN HEILEMANN IF YOU WERE A
HEILEMANN IF YOU WERE A CAPITALIST.
CAPITALIST. YEAH, I’M A CAPITALIST.
YEAH, I’M A CAPITALIST. >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> THE PROGRAMS YOU ARE GOING TO
>> THE PROGRAMS YOU ARE GOING TO ADD.
ADD. HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN WHERE YOU ARE
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN WHERE YOU ARE ON CAPITALISM/SOCIALISM AND
ON CAPITALISM/SOCIALISM AND WHERE DO THEY MARRY EACH OTHER?
WHERE DO THEY MARRY EACH OTHER? >> LOOK, I BELIEVE IN MARKETS.
>> LOOK, I BELIEVE IN MARKETS. THAT’S WHERE THIS POINT ABOUT
THAT’S WHERE THIS POINT ABOUT TECH IS ALL ABOUT.
TECH IS ALL ABOUT. I SEE THE BENEFITS THAT MARKETS
I SEE THE BENEFITS THAT MARKETS CAN PRODUCE.
CAN PRODUCE. I LOVE THE FACT THAT THERE ARE A
I LOVE THE FACT THAT THERE ARE A ZILLION PEOPLE DEVELOPING NEW
ZILLION PEOPLE DEVELOPING NEW APPS OR STARTING NEW BUSINESSES
APPS OR STARTING NEW BUSINESSES OR TRYING A SECOND ONE.
OR TRYING A SECOND ONE. I THINK THAT’S FABULOUS.
I THINK THAT’S FABULOUS. I THINK IT’S GREAT THAT LITTLE
I THINK IT’S GREAT THAT LITTLE BUSINESSES ARE TRYING TO GET TO
BUSINESSES ARE TRYING TO GET TO BE MEDIUM SIZED BUSINESSES.
BE MEDIUM SIZED BUSINESSES. THEY ARE TRYING TO GET TO BE
THEY ARE TRYING TO GET TO BE LARGE BUSINESSES.
LARGE BUSINESSES. BUT, UNDERSTAND THIS.
BUT, UNDERSTAND THIS. MARKETS WITHOUT RULES ARE THEFT.
MARKETS WITHOUT RULES ARE THEFT. THERE’S GOT TO BE RULES AND
THERE’S GOT TO BE RULES AND THERE’S GOT TO BE A COP ON THE
THERE’S GOT TO BE A COP ON THE BEAT.
BEAT. YOU AND I GO A LONG WAY BACK.
YOU AND I GO A LONG WAY BACK. YOU REMEMBER BACK BEFORE THE
YOU REMEMBER BACK BEFORE THE CRASH THAT WHAT HAPPENED,
CRASH THAT WHAT HAPPENED, BASICALLY, WAS THE FINANCIAL
BASICALLY, WAS THE FINANCIAL GIANTS FIGURED OUT THEY COULD
GIANTS FIGURED OUT THEY COULD MAKE BUCKETS OF MONEY BY
MAKE BUCKETS OF MONEY BY CHEATING THEIR CUSTOMERS,
CHEATING THEIR CUSTOMERS, MORTGAGES, CREDIT CARDS AND SURE
MORTGAGES, CREDIT CARDS AND SURE ENOUGH, THAT’S WHAT THEY WERE
ENOUGH, THAT’S WHAT THEY WERE DOING.
DOING. THE COPS ON THE BEAT, THE
THE COPS ON THE BEAT, THE REGULATORS LOOKED THE OTHER WAY,
REGULATORS LOOKED THE OTHER WAY, PAID NO ATTENTION.
PAID NO ATTENTION. AND THE CONSEQUENCE WAS, BIG
AND THE CONSEQUENCE WAS, BIG BANKS MADE A LOT OF MONEY.
BANKS MADE A LOT OF MONEY. THEY BROKE THE BACKS OF MILLIONS
THEY BROKE THE BACKS OF MILLIONS OF FAMILIES AND ULTIMATELY
OF FAMILIES AND ULTIMATELY CRASHED OUR ECONOMY.
CRASHED OUR ECONOMY. THAT’S WHY WE NEEDED RULES.
THAT’S WHY WE NEEDED RULES. SO, I CAME IN WITH THE IDEA THE
SO, I CAME IN WITH THE IDEA THE CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION
CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU.
BUREAU. WE GOT THAT BUREAU IN PLACE AND
WE GOT THAT BUREAU IN PLACE AND NOW YOU BEGIN TO SEE A MUCH MORE
NOW YOU BEGIN TO SEE A MUCH MORE LEVEL PLAYING FIELD.
LEVEL PLAYING FIELD. WHEN THERE’S A COP ON THE BEAT,
WHEN THERE’S A COP ON THE BEAT, THOSE MARKETS START TO WORK
THOSE MARKETS START TO WORK AGAIN AND BANKS, IN THAT CASE,
AGAIN AND BANKS, IN THAT CASE, ARE FORCED TO DEVELOP THEIR
ARE FORCED TO DEVELOP THEIR PROFIT MODELS, NOT ON CHEATING
PROFIT MODELS, NOT ON CHEATING PEOPLE, BUT ON ACTUALLY OFFERING
PEOPLE, BUT ON ACTUALLY OFFERING A BETTER PRODUCT.
A BETTER PRODUCT. NOW, WELLS FARGO PROVES THEY ARE
NOW, WELLS FARGO PROVES THEY ARE WILLING TO GET OUT THERE AND TRY
WILLING TO GET OUT THERE AND TRY TO CHEAT PEOPLE, BUT AT LEAST WE
TO CHEAT PEOPLE, BUT AT LEAST WE HAD COPS WHO CAUGHT THEM AND
HAD COPS WHO CAUGHT THEM AND HAULED THEM IN AND ARE TRYING TO
HAULED THEM IN AND ARE TRYING TO MAKE CHANGES IN THE COMPANY.
MAKE CHANGES IN THE COMPANY. THAT’S WHAT IT TAKES.
THAT’S WHAT IT TAKES. MARKETS HAVE A LOT TO PRODUCE,
MARKETS HAVE A LOT TO PRODUCE, BUT ONLY IF THEY HAVE RULES AND
BUT ONLY IF THEY HAVE RULES AND IF THEY HAVE A COP THAT IS
IF THEY HAVE A COP THAT IS ENFORCING THOSE RULES.
ENFORCING THOSE RULES. >> SENATOR, DESPITE THE FLAWS,
>> SENATOR, DESPITE THE FLAWS, SOME OF WHICH YOU LAID OUT
SOME OF WHICH YOU LAID OUT THERE, CAPITALISM IS A FORCE FOR
THERE, CAPITALISM IS A FORCE FOR GOOD?
GOOD? >> YES, I DO.
>> YES, I DO. I THINK IT ALSO, WHEN IT DOESN’T
I THINK IT ALSO, WHEN IT DOESN’T WORK, IT’S BEEN A FORCE FOR BAD.
WORK, IT’S BEEN A FORCE FOR BAD. THAT’S BEEN TRUE OF EVERY FORM
THAT’S BEEN TRUE OF EVERY FORM OF GOVERNMENT WE CAN IDENTIFY.
OF GOVERNMENT WE CAN IDENTIFY. WE HAVE GOTTEN IT RIGHT
WE HAVE GOTTEN IT RIGHT SOMETIMES AND GOTTEN IT WRONG
SOMETIMES AND GOTTEN IT WRONG SOMETIMES.
SOMETIMES. WHEN YOU LET MARKETS WORK WITH
WHEN YOU LET MARKETS WORK WITH RULES AND WITH PEOPLE ON THE
RULES AND WITH PEOPLE ON THE BEAT TO ENFORCE THOSE RULES, WE
BEAT TO ENFORCE THOSE RULES, WE CAN PRODUCE A LOT OF WEALTH IN
CAN PRODUCE A LOT OF WEALTH IN THIS COUNTRY.
THIS COUNTRY. THAT’S WHAT WE HAVE DONE FOR A
THAT’S WHAT WE HAVE DONE FOR A VERY LONG TIME.
VERY LONG TIME. WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THERE ARE
WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THERE ARE AREAS WHERE MARKETS DON’T WORK.
AREAS WHERE MARKETS DON’T WORK. HEALTH CARE, FOR EXAMPLE,
HEALTH CARE, FOR EXAMPLE, SOMEBODY HAVING A HEART ATTACK
SOMEBODY HAVING A HEART ATTACK IS NOT SOMEBODY WHO IS GOING TO
IS NOT SOMEBODY WHO IS GOING TO SHOP AROUND TO SIX DIFFERENT
SHOP AROUND TO SIX DIFFERENT EMERGENCY ROOMS AND SAY WHICH
EMERGENCY ROOMS AND SAY WHICH ONE IS GOING TO GIVE ME THE BEST
ONE IS GOING TO GIVE ME THE BEST PRICE?
PRICE? EDUCATION.
EDUCATION. PUBLIC EDUCATION.
PUBLIC EDUCATION. THAT’S NOT A PLACE WHERE A
THAT’S NOT A PLACE WHERE A MARKET WORKS.
MARKET WORKS. BUT, THERE ARE PLACES WHERE
BUT, THERE ARE PLACES WHERE MARKETS DO WORK.
MARKETS DO WORK. COFFEE MAKERS, PET PILLOWS.
COFFEE MAKERS, PET PILLOWS. I’M IN.
I’M IN. WE NEED ROBUST MARKETS FOR
WE NEED ROBUST MARKETS FOR THOSE.
THOSE. THAT’S HOW WE PRODUCE.
THAT’S HOW WE PRODUCE. BY THE WAY, THAT’S HOW WE ENDED
BY THE WAY, THAT’S HOW WE ENDED UP PRODUCING THE AMAZON’S AND
UP PRODUCING THE AMAZON’S AND GOOG
GOOG GOOGLES AND FACEBOOKS OF THE
GOOGLES AND FACEBOOKS OF THE WORLD.
WORLD. THE FACT MARKETS COULD GROW
THE FACT MARKETS COULD GROW INCREDIBLE, INCREDIBLE
INCREDIBLE, INCREDIBLE BUSINESSES.
BUSINESSES. >> LET ME CLOSE BY ASKING YOU, A
>> LET ME CLOSE BY ASKING YOU, A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK DEMOCRATS
LOT OF PEOPLE THINK DEMOCRATS ARE MOST INTERESTED IN HAVING
ARE MOST INTERESTED IN HAVING SOMEONE WHO CAN BEAT TRUMP AND
SOMEONE WHO CAN BEAT TRUMP AND TRUMP IS A STREET FIGHTER AND HE
TRUMP IS A STREET FIGHTER AND HE PLAYS BY UNFAIR RULES.
PLAYS BY UNFAIR RULES. I FEEL LIKE, JUST MY OPINION
I FEEL LIKE, JUST MY OPINION HERE, HILLARY CLINTON WAS A BIT
HERE, HILLARY CLINTON WAS A BIT BOXED IN ON THE DEBATE STAGE,
BOXED IN ON THE DEBATE STAGE, ESPECIALLY ON ISSUES PERTAINING
ESPECIALLY ON ISSUES PERTAINING TO MASSAGENY AND SEXISM.
TO MASSAGENY AND SEXISM. IT’S AN AREA SHE WAS EXTREMELY
IT’S AN AREA SHE WAS EXTREMELY UNCOMFORTABLE.
UNCOMFORTABLE. HOW WOULD NOMINEE, ELIZABETH
HOW WOULD NOMINEE, ELIZABETH WARREN HANDLE PRESIDENT TRUMP ON
WARREN HANDLE PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THE DEBATE STAGE.
THE DEBATE STAGE. WOULD YOU CALL HIM ON ON
WOULD YOU CALL HIM ON ON TREATMENT OF WOMEN AND HIS
TREATMENT OF WOMEN AND HIS RECORD AND HOW WOULD YOU FIGHT
RECORD AND HOW WOULD YOU FIGHT BACK WHEN HE CALLS YOU NAMES?
BACK WHEN HE CALLS YOU NAMES? I WANT TO KNOW WHAT THIS LOOKS
I WANT TO KNOW WHAT THIS LOOKS LIKE.
LIKE. >> I AM NOT AFRAID OF ANYONE.
>> I AM NOT AFRAID OF ANYONE. AND, PARTICULARLY NOT DONALD
AND, PARTICULARLY NOT DONALD TRUMP.
TRUMP. PEOPLE HAVE TOLD ME, FOR MOST OF
PEOPLE HAVE TOLD ME, FOR MOST OF MY LIFE, WHAT’S TOO HARD TO GET
MY LIFE, WHAT’S TOO HARD TO GET DONE.
DONE. MY RESPONSE HAS ALWAYS BEEN TO
MY RESPONSE HAS ALWAYS BEEN TO FIGHT BACK.
FIGHT BACK. THE CONSUMER AGENCY, RIGHT?
THE CONSUMER AGENCY, RIGHT? SO, AFTER THE BIG CRASH --
SO, AFTER THE BIG CRASH -- >> THE FINANCIAL PROTECTION
>> THE FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU.
BUREAU. >> THAT’S RIGHT.
>> THAT’S RIGHT. I CAME IN AND SAID WE NEED THIS
I CAME IN AND SAID WE NEED THIS AGENCY.
AGENCY. YOU KNOW WHAT PEOPLE IN
YOU KNOW WHAT PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON SAID TO ME?
WASHINGTON SAID TO ME? TWO THINGS.
TWO THINGS. THE FIRST IS, THAT IS A GREAT
THE FIRST IS, THAT IS A GREAT IDEA.
IDEA. THAT WOULD ACTUALLY CHANGE THE
THAT WOULD ACTUALLY CHANGE THE WORLD.
WORLD. >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> THE SECOND IS, DON’T DO IT.
>> THE SECOND IS, DON’T DO IT. DON’T EVEN TRY.
DON’T EVEN TRY. IT’S TOO HARD.
IT’S TOO HARD. YOU WON’T BE ABLE TO GET IT
YOU WON’T BE ABLE TO GET IT DONE.
DONE. YOU WILL BE UP AGAINST THE
YOU WILL BE UP AGAINST THE BANKS.
BANKS. THEY WILL SPEND MILLIONS OF
THEY WILL SPEND MILLIONS OF DOLLARS A DAY LOBBYING AGAINST
DOLLARS A DAY LOBBYING AGAINST THIS.
THIS. MY RESPONSE WAS, I GOT IN THE
MY RESPONSE WAS, I GOT IN THE FIGHT.
FIGHT. I GOT IN THE FIGHT AND STAYED IN
I GOT IN THE FIGHT AND STAYED IN THE FIGHT.
THE FIGHT. TODAY, THE CONSUMER AGENCY --
TODAY, THE CONSUMER AGENCY -- >> ARE YOU AFRAID TO GET INTO
>> ARE YOU AFRAID TO GET INTO HIS FACE WHEN ONE NEEDS TO?
HIS FACE WHEN ONE NEEDS TO? >> NOT EVEN A LITTLE BIT.
>> NOT EVEN A LITTLE BIT. >> OKAY.
>> OKAY. ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT. YOU GOT IT GOING.
YOU GOT IT GOING. SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN, THANK
SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU VERY MUCH. IT’S GREAT TO HAVE YOU.
IT’S GREAT TO HAVE YOU. COME BACK ANYTIME.
COME BACK ANYTIME. >>> STILL AHEAD ON "MORNING
>>> STILL AHEAD ON "MORNING JOE," IN THE WAKE OF A SECOND
JOE," IN THE WAKE OF A SECOND DEADLY CRASH, AIRLINES AND
DEADLY CRASH, AIRLINES AND COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD ARE
COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD ARE GROUNDING THE BOEING 737 MAX 8
GROUNDING THE BOEING 737 MAX 8 JETS.
JETS. THAT DOESN’T INCLUDE THE U.S.